+++
# Date this page was created.
date = "2016-04-27"

# Project title.
title = "UK NERC-COMET"

# Project summary to display on homepage.
summary = "Centre for the Observation and Modelling of Earthquakes, Volcanoes and Tectonics"

# Optional image to display on homepage (relative to `static/img/` folder).
image_preview = "2020_COMET_logo.png"

# Tags: can be used for filtering projects.
# Example: `tags = ["machine-learning", "deep-learning"]`
tags = ["EO", "earthquakes", "volcanoes", "InSAR"]

# Optional external URL for project (replaces project detail page).
external_link = "https://comet.nerc.ac.uk/"

# Does the project detail page use math formatting?
math = false

# Optional featured image (relative to `static/img/` folder).
[header]
image = "headers/2020_comet_long_colour.png"
caption = "My caption :smile:"

+++

The Centre for Observation and Modelling of Earthquakes, Volcanoes and Tectonics (COMET) uses satellite measurements alongside ground-based observations and geophysical models to study earthquakes and volcanoes, and help understand the hazards they pose.

A national-scale community with considerable size and impact, COMET brings together world-leading scientists across the British Geological Survey (BGS) and 10 UK universities: Bristol, Cambridge, Durham, Leeds, Liverpool, Manchester, Newcastle, Oxford, Reading and UCL. We work closely with the Natural Environment Research Council (NERC), National Centre for Earth Observation (NCEO) and European Space Agency (ESA), as well as many other national and international partners.
