+++
date = "2013-05-17T12:00:00"
draft = false
tags = ["deformation","earthquake","geodesy","open data","programming"]
title = "3D-DEF code and manual/tutorial (.pdf)"
math = true
summary = """
This post presents some modifications of 3D-DEF code is a three-dimensional boundary-element model code and manual/tutorial (.pdf). All credit to the authors, here I merely tried to make them easier to start work with.
"""

#[header]
#image = "headers/getting-started.png"
#caption = "Image credit: [**Academic**](https://github.com/gcushen/hugo-academic/)"

+++

Recently, I encountered a ground deformation problem where the slip along a particular [fault](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fault_%28geology%29) seems not partitioned (distributed) as usual. Most of the elastic dislocation codes assume that slip partitions about half of the slip on one side block (hangingwall) and the other half along the other block (footwall), e.g., the popular [Okada codes](http://www.mathworks.com/matlabcentral/fileexchange/25982). These codes will not work when slip occurs only due to the motion of one block. This is basically the problem I want to study, for this you need more advance and flexible programs, one of those is 3D-DEF.

3D-DEF code is a three-dimensional boundary-element model that allows the calculation of stresses, strains, and displacements within and on the surface of an elastic half-space (it means, there is no bottom to the model). The power of the model comes from the ability to a) solve for a variety of deformation quantities on a variety of faults and planes simultaneously, and b) to drive the deformation in relatively realistic (and therefore potentially complex) ways.

So, I just downloaded the package few days ago. However, I found that the package you can download from [here](https://umdrive.memphis.edu/mellis/public/3ddef.tar) will not compile at your first try using default linux-installed gfortran compiler. Some modifications were necessary, which are minimal but related to the length of lines (a constrain of fortran codes). Another problem was the order of compilation of the subprograms, even after correcting this. Compilation will fail due to some preexisting .mod files, producing some errors. So I have worked around those little problems, and I have uploaded a mild corrected version of the package [here](data/3ddef.tar.bz2) (well due to restriction on the file extensions in wordpress, it’ll require that you remove the “_removepdfextension.pdf” before uncompress the tarball file). In this package, in addition to the slightly modified code, I have added a simple compile.me script that can be executed and will create the 3d program for you.

Finally, I also typeset the manual from the website in latex to generate the documentation in an amenable and print-able friendly way. There are two documents, the manual and the tutorial. Those documents provide essentially the same information as in the website, but I cannot discard typos during the translation. So, I encourage to visit the [on-line documentation](http://www.ceri.memphis.edu/people/ellis/3ddef/index.html).

So I hope those modifications will be of some help.

[here](data/3ddef-tar-bz2_removepdfextension.pdf)
